# Open Science Radio - Preparation for interview partners

This document will guide you through a hand full of steps you need to
conduct before an [Open Science Radio](http://www.openscienceradio.de)
recording. But at first: Thank you very much for taking the time to
talk with us - we really appriciate it. 

## Internet connection

Ideally connect your computer via ethernet in order to have the best
connection. WiFi will work, but always runs the risk of dropouts (and
has done so quite a few times).

## Microphone / Headset

If you can, please always use headphones, otherwise your microphone
will also take up the sound from your loudspeakers, resulting in echo
or feedback.

Please try to avoid using the built-in microphones of your
computer/notebook,as these are usually not too good and will also take
up a lot of the room and noises from typing or just touching the desk
it stands on.

A headset, combination of microphone and headphones, is a convenient
solution. There are a lot of headset often used for VoIP conferences,
Skype calls, or delivered with your mobile phone. Not all of them do
sound good, so let us know what you have (and sometimes a little test
run would also be helpful).

Using a proper microphone will help providing the best audio quality,
however not everybvody has one at hand. If you're not sure about your
setup, let us know and we'll figure it out together.

## Studio Link

We use the open source tool [Studio-Link](http://studio-link.de/) to
connect the interview partner. It is available for macOS, GNU/Linux
and Windows. [This video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nDuCgK41kE8)
guides you through the different steps of setting it up.

## Local recording

While is not required it would be great if you could make a local
recording. There are numerous solutions.

- On macOS - simply use QuickTime
- On all three platform the open source tool
  [Audacity](http://www.audacityteam.org/) can be used

You will find a short section about local backup recording [in the video](https://youtu.be/nDuCgK41kE8?t=9m) we've provided.

After the recording upload the file (e.g. wav or flac) to web-based
storage of your choice and make the link accessible to us.

